Below is a structured Test Report in formal technical English. You can adjust hostnames, timestamps, and environment details as needed.
Test Report
Title: TLS Connectivity Verification via OpenSSL
Date: 18 February 2026
Environment: Production / Staging (specify)
Target Host: example.com
Port: 443
Tester: (Name)
1. Objective
To verify successful TLS establishment between client and target web server using the openssl s_client command and compare the handshake results with browser (Chrome) security details to confirm certificate validity and secure channel establishment.
2. Test Command Executed
Bash
复制代码
openssl s_client -connect example.com:443 -servername example.com
Command Purpose
-connect example.com:443
Initiates a TCP connection to the target host on port 443.
-servername example.com
Enables SNI (Server Name Indication), ensuring the correct certificate is presented by servers hosting multiple domains.
3. Observations
The following key outputs were observed:
3.1 TLS Handshake Status
SSL-Session: section present
Protocol: TLSv1.2 (or TLSv1.3)
Cipher: TLS_AES_256_GCM_SHA384 (example)
Verify return code: 0 (ok)
This indicates:
TCP connection successfully established
TLS handshake completed
Cipher suite negotiated successfully
Certificate chain verified without errors
3.2 Certificate Details
Observed fields:
subject= matches expected domain (CN=example.com or SAN contains example.com)
issuer= matches trusted CA
Validity period is current (Not Before / Not After dates valid)
3.3 Chrome Browser Security Comparison
From Chrome → Security → Certificate Details:
Same certificate Subject CN / SAN
Same Issuer CA
Same validity period
Same TLS protocol version
Same negotiated cipher suite
The browser shows:
Connection is secure.
4. Analysis
4.1 Why Matching Outputs Confirm TLS Success
TLS handshake process includes:
TCP 3-way handshake
ClientHello (protocol versions + cipher suites)
ServerHello (selected cipher)
Certificate exchange
Key exchange
Finished messages
If openssl s_client outputs:
Negotiated protocol
Selected cipher
Valid certificate chain
Verify return code: 0 (ok)
Then:
The server presented a valid certificate
The certificate chain is trusted
The handshake completed successfully
Encryption keys were negotiated
Since Chrome reports identical certificate and cipher details, both clients established secure TLS sessions independently and successfully.
Matching protocol version and cipher suite confirm that:
The same TLS configuration is applied server-side
No SSL interception or proxy modification occurred
No certificate mismatch exists
5. Conclusion
The TLS connection to example.com:443 was successfully established.
Evidence:
OpenSSL handshake completed
Certificate verified successfully (Verify return code: 0)
Negotiated protocol and cipher match browser results
Chrome reports secure connection
Therefore, TLS configuration and certificate deployment are functioning correctly.
If you want, I can also provide a more formal enterprise-style report template suitable for audit documentation.