When running a JAR program via a Shell script, it is possible to copy a log file to a new directory while the program is still writing to it. This behavior is possible due to how file systems and file handles work in operating systems. Here's the explanation:

1. File Handles and File Content

In Unix-like systems (such as Linux), files are not directly tied to their file path in a strict sense. Instead, files are accessed via file descriptors. When a program runs (e.g., a Java program running a JAR file), it interacts with a log file through a file descriptor.

The file content is stored at the location pointed to by the file descriptor. When a log file is being written to, it is the file descriptor pointing to the actual file data, not the file path. This allows you to copy or rename the file while the program is still running, as the file descriptor continues to point to the same data location.


2. File System Operations

Suppose your program is writing logs to a file (e.g., app.log). As the JAR program runs, it writes log messages into this file.

While the program is running, you can use a command like cp to copy the log file to another location. The operating system allows this because it sees the log file as a file descriptor pointing to the data, and copying the file just copies its content to a new location without interrupting the process writing to the original file.


3. Why It's Possible to Copy a Log File While It's Being Written

File Descriptors Remain Unchanged: Even if you copy the file, the original file remains open in the program via its file descriptor. The program can continue to write to the file, and copying the file does not affect this ongoing write operation.

Copying Only Affects the File Content: When you copy a file that is being written to, you are essentially copying its current state (the content), but it doesn’t affect the process writing to the original file. The copied file is just a snapshot of the current file content, while the program keeps writing to the original log file.


4. Example of Shell Script

Here’s an example of a shell script that runs a JAR program, and while it's running, copies the log file to a new directory every 5 seconds:

#!/bin/bash
java -jar my_application.jar > /var/log/myapp.log 2>&1 &
# Copy the log file while it's being written to
while true; do
    cp /var/log/myapp.log /backup/myapp.log
    sleep 5
done

The java -jar my_application.jar > /var/log/myapp.log 2>&1 & command runs the JAR program and redirects its output (both standard output and error) to /var/log/myapp.log, running in the background.

The cp command copies the log file to /backup/myapp.log every 5 seconds. The log file is still being written to by the JAR program during this process.


5. How the File Copying Works

cp Command: The cp command simply copies the contents of the log file from one location to another. Since the program is continuously writing to the file via its file descriptor, the copying operation does not interfere with the program's ability to write new log entries to the file.

File Locking: If the program does not explicitly lock the file, copying the file will not be blocked. Some logging frameworks might lock the file to avoid simultaneous access, but this is not typical for basic log writing.


6. Log Rotation or Sync Tools

Instead of manually copying files, tools like logrotate are often used to automatically manage log files, rotating logs once they reach a certain size or age, ensuring that logs are copied or archived without disrupting the ongoing process.

rsync can also be used to synchronize the log file between directories, ensuring that a consistent copy of the log file is maintained.


7. Summary

The reason you can copy a log file while it is being written by a JAR program is because:

1. File Descriptors: The file content is accessed through a file descriptor, which remains valid even if the file is copied or moved.


2. Independent File Operations: The process of copying a file does not interfere with the program’s ability to write to the file. The copy is just a snapshot of the file's contents at the moment the copy command is executed.


3. Operating System Features: Unix-like operating systems allow files to be copied or moved while they are being written to, as long as the file is not locked by the program.



In conclusion, this behavior is possible due to how file systems work, allowing file descriptors to remain open while allowing the file to be copied without interrupting the program's ability to continue writing to it.

