Sure! Here's the presentation in English:


---

Slide 1: Introduction to CI/CD

CI/CD (Continuous Integration / Continuous Delivery) is a set of practices and tools in modern software development aimed at automating the build, test, and deployment processes.

Continuous Integration (CI): Frequently merging code into the main branch to catch errors early and ensure code quality.

Continuous Delivery (CD): Automating the software release process, ensuring that every update is ready for quick, safe deployment to production.



---

Slide 2: CI/CD Workflow

1. Code Commit: Developers commit code to the version control system (like Git).


2. Automated Build: CI tools automatically trigger the build process.


3. Automated Testing: Unit tests, integration tests, etc., are run automatically.


4. Automated Deployment: Once tests pass, the application is automatically deployed to the production or staging environment.




---

Slide 3: GitLab CI/CD Workflow

1. GitLab Repository: Code is hosted in GitLab.


2. .gitlab-ci.yml Configuration File: Defines the CI/CD workflow, specifying build, test, and deploy tasks.


3. GitLab Runner: The agent that executes the CI/CD tasks.


4. CI/CD Pipeline: A series of jobs that perform tasks like build, test, and deploy.




---

Slide 4: GitLab CI/CD Configuration Example

.gitlab-ci.yml Example:

stages:
  - build
  - test
  - deploy

build_job:
  stage: build
  script:
    - echo "Building the project..."

test_job:
  stage: test
  script:
    - echo "Running tests..."

deploy_job:
  stage: deploy
  script:
    - echo "Deploying to production..."


---

Slide 5: Benefits of GitLab CI/CD

Increased Development Efficiency: Automated build and test processes reduce manual work.

Reduced Risk of Errors: Frequent integration and automated testing help catch issues early.

Faster Delivery: Faster deployment of new features to users.

Version Control: GitLab's version control and pipeline make team collaboration more efficient.



---

This presentation covers the basic concepts of CI/CD, the GitLab CI/CD workflow, and how to configure a simple pipeline. Let me know if you'd like more details or further expansions on any part!

